```json
[
  {
    "academic_summary": "This paper investigates coherence in language produced by individuals with schizophrenia by analyzing reference distance, the distance between a referent and its subsequent reference, in a corpus of Reddit posts. Drawing on theories of given-new information and deictic anchoring, the study hypothesizes that individuals with schizophrenia exhibit larger reference distances due to disturbances in estimating audience understanding. The methodology involves constructing a corpus from Reddit subreddits (r/schizophrenia as the target and r/unpopularopinion as the reference), part-of-speech tagging, and computing distances between repeated nouns preceded by specific determiners. Statistical analysis, including linear mixed-effects models, evaluates the relationship between reference distance, corpus, determiner type, and semantic embeddings. Results indicate that, after normalization and outlier removal, the target corpus exhibits significantly larger reference distances, supporting the hypothesis of impaired coherence. Limitations include reliance on self-reported diagnoses and assumptions about anaphoric references.",
    "public_summary": "This research explores how people with schizophrenia use language, focusing on how far apart related words are in their writing. We looked at posts on Reddit, comparing a group of people who identified as having schizophrenia with a general opinion forum. We measured the distance between a noun and its later reference (like using 'it' to refer back to 'the dog'). The study found that in the schizophrenia group, these distances were often larger, suggesting they might assume their audience knows more than they do. This could make their writing harder to follow. However, it's important to remember that this is just one group's writing style, and we relied on people self-reporting their diagnoses."
  },
  {
    "academic_summary": "This study examines coherence in schizophrenic language by measuring the corpus distance of similar nouns preceded by specific determiners. Inspired by Zimmerer et al. (2017) and Nenchev et al. (2024), the research investigates coherence and propositional statement conditions in schizophrenic language, aiming to test corpus linguistics methods rather than concur with recent psychiatric literature. The study hypothesizes that a larger noun distance indicates a low reference-referent association, suggesting disturbed world-building capacities within schizophrenic language. Data was collected from Reddit subreddits (r/schizophrenia and r/unpopularopinion), pos-tagged using the R udpipe package, and analyzed using linear mixed-effects models. The models included fixed effects of condition, target, determiner, range, and embed score, with random effects of thread and author. Results indicate that anaphora distances in the target corpus stretch over a significantly wider range of tokens compared to the reference corpus, supporting the hypothesis of impaired coherence. Limitations include reliance on self-reported diagnoses and assumptions about anaphoric references.",
    "public_summary": "This research investigates how people with schizophrenia use language, focusing on how far apart related words are in their writing. We looked at posts on Reddit, comparing a group of people who identified as having schizophrenia with a general opinion forum. We measured the distance between a noun and its later reference (like using 'it' to refer back to 'the dog'). The study found that in the schizophrenia group, these distances were often larger, suggesting they might assume their audience knows more than they do. This could make their writing harder to follow. However, it's important to remember that this is just one group's writing style, and we relied on people self-reporting their diagnoses."
  }
]
```
